# WpfEmployeeDirectory
.NET/WPF employee directory application.

A simple application that allows the user to add, edit and delete employee records. It is based on the MVVM pattern using binding for events based on data changing and IControl for actions.

Data is persistent in a SQL Server database called EmployeeDB and in a table called EmployeeInfo. The table has five fields , employeeID, firstName, lastName, title and startDate. The employeeID field is autogenerated, unique and is the primary index of the database. 

A buildDB.sql file that generates the database and table is included to ensure compatibility. It should be noted that it should work first time, it attempts to drop and recreate if a database already exists, this does not delete/remove the database files

EmployeeDB.mdf
EmployeeDB_Log.ldf

these need to be manually deleted from the containing folder, typically:

C:\Program Files\Microsoft SQL Server\MSSQL15.SQLEXPRESS\MSSQL\DATA


The database connection string is stored in a file located in "<Your Install Folder>\Application Files\WpfEmployeeDirectory_1_0_0_0" 
and is called "WpfEmployeeDirectory.exe.config.deploy". The section is shown below, replace with your string between <value> and </value> with no quotes.



  <applicationSettings>
    <WpfEmployeeDirectory.Properties.Settings>
      <setting name="DBConnectionString" serializeAs="String">
        <value>Data Source=DELL-FMQG6PQP5D\SQLEXPRESS;Initial Catalog=EmployeeDB;Integrated Security=True</value>
      </setting>
    </WpfEmployeeDirectory.Properties.Settings>
  </applicationSettings>


Enhancement: navigation around the DataGrid should center the window on the current selected employee such that after an update the edited or added employee
is always in view. The app does select the right employee but doesn't consistently place that entry in the visible part of the DataGrid.

Enhancement: search capabilities, specific employee, startDate window for reviews/anniversaries, service awards etc.

Enhancement: other data fields.
